README.md, before:


# Ansible Role:  `fail2ban`

An Ansible Role that installs and configure fail2ban 2.x on Debian/Ubuntu, RHEL/CentOS, ArchLinux and ArtixLinux (mabybe also on Gentoo based Systemes).


[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/CI)][ci]
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban)][issues]
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban)][releases]

[ci]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/actions
[issues]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue
[releases]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/releases

## Requirements & Dependencies

not known

### Operating systems

Tested on

* Debian 9 / 10
* Ubuntu 18.04 / 20.04
* CentOS 8
* OracleLinux 8

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

`fail2ban_ignoreips`

can be an IP address, a CIDR mask or a DNS host.

`fail2ban_conf`

`fail2ban_jail`

`fail2ban_path_definitions`

`fail2ban_jails`

`fail2ban_jail`


## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

```yaml
fail2ban_ignoreips:
  - 127.0.0.1/8
  - 192.168.0.0/24

fail2ban_conf:
  default:
    loglevel: INFO
    logtarget: "/var/log/fail2ban.log"
    syslogsocket: auto
    socket: /run/fail2ban/fail2ban.sock
    pidfile: /run/fail2ban/fail2ban.pid
    dbfile: /var/lib/fail2ban/fail2ban.sqlite3
    dbpurgeage: 1d
    dbmaxmatches: 10
  definition: {}
  thread:
    stacksize: 0

fail2ban_jail:
  default:
    ignoreips: "{{ fail2ban_ignoreips }}"
    bantime: 600
    maxretry: 3
    findtime: 3200
    backend: auto
    usedns: warn
    logencoding: auto
    jails_enabled: false
  actions:
    destemail: root@localhost
    sender: root@localhost
    mta: sendmail
    protocol: tcp
    chain: INPUT
    banaction: iptables-multiport

fail2ban_jails:
  - name: ssh
    enabled: true
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd
    logpath: /var/log/authlog.log
    findtime: 3200
    bantime: 86400
    maxretry: 2
  - name: ssh-breakin
    enabled: true
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd-break-in
    logpath: /var/log/authlog.log
    maxretry: 2
  - name: ssh-ddos
    enabled: true
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd-ddos
    logpath: /var/log/authlog.log
    maxretry: 2
```

## License

Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

Feature/support artixlinux (#6)
* support artixlinux too (maybe all other openrc based systems?)
* reorganize  vars
* change some code style
* split workflows

README.md, after:


# Ansible Role:  `fail2ban`

An Ansible Role that installs and configure fail2ban 2.x on Debian/Ubuntu, RHEL/CentOS, 
ArchLinux and ArtixLinux (mabybe also on other `openrc` based Systemes).


[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/CI)][ci]
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban)][issues]
[![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban)][releases]

[ci]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/actions
[issues]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue
[releases]: https://github.com/bodsch/ansible-fail2ban/releases


## Requirements & Dependencies

None

### Operating systems

Tested on

* Debian 9 / 10
* Ubuntu 18.04 / 20.04
* CentOS 7 / 8
* Oracle Linux 7 / 8
* Arch Linux

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yaml`):

`fail2ban_ignoreips`

can be an IP address, a CIDR mask or a DNS host.

`fail2ban_conf`

`fail2ban_jail`

`fail2ban_path_definitions`

`fail2ban_jails`

`fail2ban_jail`


## Example Playbook

see into [molecule test](molecule/default/converge.yml) and [configuration](molecule/default/group_vars/all/vars.yml)



```yaml
fail2ban_ignoreips:
  - 127.0.0.1/8
  - 192.168.0.0/24

fail2ban_conf:
  default:
    loglevel: INFO
    logtarget: "/var/log/fail2ban.log"
    syslogsocket: auto
    socket: /run/fail2ban/fail2ban.sock
    pidfile: /run/fail2ban/fail2ban.pid
    dbfile: /var/lib/fail2ban/fail2ban.sqlite3
    dbpurgeage: 1d
    dbmaxmatches: 10
  definition: {}
  thread:
    stacksize: 0

fail2ban_jail:
  default:
    ignoreips: "{{ fail2ban_ignoreips }}"
    bantime: 600
    maxretry: 3
    findtime: 3200
    backend: auto
    usedns: warn
    logencoding: auto
    jails_enabled: false
  actions:
    destemail: root@localhost
    sender: root@localhost
    mta: sendmail
    protocol: tcp
    chain: INPUT
    banaction: iptables-multiport

fail2ban_jails:
  - name: ssh
    enabled: true
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd
    logpath: /var/log/authlog.log
    findtime: 3200
    bantime: 86400
    maxretry: 2
  - name: ssh-breakin
    enabled: true
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd-break-in
    logpath: /var/log/authlog.log
    maxretry: 2
  - name: ssh-ddos
    enabled: true
    port: ssh
    filter: sshd-ddos
    logpath: /var/log/authlog.log
    maxretry: 2
```

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE)
